# Description
Given an undirected tree consisting of n vertices numbered from 0 to n-1, which has some apples in their vertices. You spend 1 second to walk over one edge of the tree. Return the minimum time in seconds you have to spend to collect all apples in the tree, starting at vertex 0 and coming back to this vertex.

The edges of the undirected tree are given in the array edges, where edges[i] = [ai, bi] means that exists an edge connecting the vertices ai and bi. Additionally, there is a boolean array hasApple, where hasApple[i] = true means that vertex i has an apple; otherwise, it does not have any apple.

 

Example 1:


Input: n = 7, edges = [[0,1],[0,2],[1,4],[1,5],[2,3],[2,6]], hasApple = [false,false,true,false,true,true,false]
Output: 8 
Explanation: The figure above represents the given tree where red vertices have an apple. One optimal path to collect all apples is shown by the green arrows.  
Example 2:


Input: n = 7, edges = [[0,1],[0,2],[1,4],[1,5],[2,3],[2,6]], hasApple = [false,false,true,false,false,true,false]
Output: 6
Explanation: The figure above represents the given tree where red vertices have an apple. One optimal path to collect all apples is shown by the green arrows.  
Example 3:

Input: n = 7, edges = [[0,1],[0,2],[1,4],[1,5],[2,3],[2,6]], hasApple = [false,false,false,false,false,false,false]
Output: 0
 

Constraints:

1 <= n <= 105
edges.length == n - 1
edges[i].length == 2
0 <= ai < bi <= n - 1
fromi < toi
hasApple.length == n

# Approach


Each vertex can be categorized into two

1. worth visiting
   (1.a) the vertex `hasApple`
   (1.b) 1>= successor of the vertex `hasApple`
2. not worth visitng

To know if a vertex is categorized into (1.b), we need to visit its successor, and that being said we need to utilized DFS.

To simplify the process, we can utilize a 2D array representing neighboring edges and a set preventing the method from re-visiting a vertex. This takes total **Θ(2∣E∣+∣E∣)=O(∣E∣)\Theta(2|E| + |E|) = O(|E|)**Θ**(**2∣**E**∣**+**∣**E**∣**)**=**O**(**∣**E**∣**) space.

We can keep track of `cost` variable throughout the traversal. Note that it costs total `2` seconds to visit one additional non-root vertex (from its parent to the vertex + from vertex to its parent) except for the root vertex. For instance, if there is **∣V∣|V|**∣**V**∣ vertices and all the vertices have apple, we need total **2(∣V∣−1)2(|V| - 1)**2**(**∣**V**∣**−**1**)** seconds.

In each traversal, we can take the actions following

1. the vertex is leaf (has no child)
   (1.a) the vertex has apple **→\rightarrow**→ return 2
   (1.b) the vertex does not has apple **→\rightarrow**→ return 0
2. the vertex is not leaf (has child)
   (2.a) at least one of its successor has apple **→\rightarrow**→ return 2 + all the costs from its successor
   (2.b) none of its successor has apple return 0

By tracking the `cost`, we can simplify the above as following

```kotlin
if hasApple[u]or cost >0:
return cost +2
else:
return cost
```

* `u`: current node
* (1.a), (2.a): `hasApple[u] or cost > 0` **→\rightarrow**→ `return cost + 2`
* (1.b), (2.b): `else` **→\rightarrow**→ `return cost`

Lastly, except the case where none of the vertices has apple, we need to reduce the output of `dfs(0)` by 2 as it considers visiting the root vertice takes 2 seconds. This can be handled by the last line `return max(dfs(0) - 2, 0)`.


# Solution

### MINE

```python
from collections import defaultdict, deque

class Solution:
    def minTime(self, n: int, edges: List[List[int]], hasApple: List[bool]) -> int:
        E = defaultdict(list)

        for u,v in edges:
            E[u].append(v)
            E[v].append(u)

        visited = set()
        def dfs(u: int):
            cost = 0
            visited.add(u)
            for v in E[u]:
                if v not in visited:
                    cost += dfs(v)
            if hasApple[u] or cost > 0:
                return cost + 2
            else:
                return cost
                
        return max(dfs(0) - 2, 0)
```

Where $G=(V,E)$, the given graph(tree) has vertices $V$ and edges $E$,

* Time complexity: $O(∣V∣)=O(n)$
* Space complexity: $O(∣E∣)$

### BEST

```python

```

* Time Complexity: $O(1), O(logn), O(n), O(nlogn), O(n^2)$
* Space Complexity: $O(1), O(logn), O(n), O(nlogn), O(n^2)$

# Note
